The NASA Ames Stereo Pipeline (ASP) would not be possible with out the
use of third party software that was also open sources. Our binaries
may include the following software:

************************************************************************
JHEAD
http://www.sentex.net/~mwandel/jhead/

//    Jhead is public domain software - that is, you can do whatever
//    you want with it, and include it in software that is licensed under
//    the GNU or the BSD license, or whatever other licence you chose,
//    including proprietary closed source licenses.  Although not part
//    of the license, I do expect common courtesy, please.
//
//    -Matthias Wandel

************************************************************************
OBALoG
http://krex.k-state.edu/dspace/handle/2097/3651

  * Optimized Box Approximation of Laplacian of Gaussian (OBALoG)
  * Authors : Zachary Moratto, Vinayak Jakkula, Chris Lewis, Dale Schinstock
  *
  * Copyright (c) (2009): <Kansas State University,Manhattan,Kansas>
  * All rights reserved.
  *
  * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
  * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
  *     * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
  *       notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
  *     * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
  *       notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
  *       documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
  *     * Neither the name of Kansas State University nor the
  *       names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products
  *       derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

************************************************************************
FLANN
(Fast Approximate Nearest Neighbors with Automatic Algorithm)
http://people.cs.ubc.ca/~mariusm/index.php/FLANN/FLANN

 * Software License Agreement (BSD License)
 *
 * Copyright 2008-2009  Marius Muja (mariusm@cs.ubc.ca). All rights reserved.
 * Copyright 2008-2009  David G. Lowe (lowe@cs.ubc.ca). All rights reserved.
 *
 * THE BSD LICENSE
 *
 * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
 * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
 * are met:
 *
 * 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
 * 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
 *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
 *    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
 *
 * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
 * IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
 * OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.
 * IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
 * INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
 * NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
 * DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
 * THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
 * (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF
 * THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

************************************************************************
ISIS3
Integrated Software for Imagers and Spectrometers
http://isis.astrogeology.usgs.gov/

ISIS Licensing, copyright, distribution, and warranty information

USGS-authored or produced data, information, and software are in the
public domain.

Software and related material (data and (or) documentation), contained
in or furnished in connection with a software distribution, are made
available by the U.S. Geological Survey (USGS) to be used in the
public interest and in the advancement of science. You may, without
any fee or cost, use, copy, modify, or distribute this software, and
any derivative works thereof, and its supporting documentation,
subject to the following restrictions and understandings.

If you distribute copies or modifications of the software and related
material, make sure the recipients receive a copy of this notice and
receive or can get a copy of the original distribution. If the
software and (or) related material are modified and distributed, it
must be made clear that the recipients do not have the original and
they must be informed of the extent of the modifications. For example,
modified files must include a prominent notice stating the
modifications made, the author of the modifications, and the date the
modifications were made. This restriction is necessary to guard
against problems introduced in the software by others, reflecting
negatively on the reputation of the USGS.

The software is public property and you therefore have the right to
the source code, if desired. You may charge fees for distribution,
warranties, and services provided in connection with the software or
derivative works thereof. The name USGS can be used in any advertising
or publicity to endorse or promote any products or commercial entity
using this software if specific written permission is obtained from
the USGS.

The user agrees to appropriately acknowledge the authors and the USGS
in publications that result from the use of this software or in
products that include this software in whole or in part.

Because the software and related material are free (other than nominal
materials and handling fees) and provided "as is," the authors, the
USGS, and the United States Government have made no warranty, express
or implied, as to accuracy or completeness and are not obligated to
provide the user with any support, consulting, training or assistance
of any kind with regard to the use, operation, and performance of this
software nor to provide the user with any updates, revisions, new
versions or "bug fixes."

The user assumes all risk for any damages whatsoever resulting from
loss of use, data, or profits arising in connection with the access,
use, quality, or performance of this software

************************************************************************
CURL
http://curl.haxx.se/

COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE

Copyright (c) 1996 - 2011, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>.

All rights reserved.

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT
OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT
HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER
IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR
IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder
shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use
or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization
of the copyright holder.

************************************************************************